Docs 6444 3.9 connector docs (#971)
mulesoft/docs-mule-runtime-3: modules/ROOT/pages/marketo-connector.adoc

= Marketo Connector - Mule 3
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

Support Category: https://www.mulesoft.com/legal/versioning-back-support-policy#anypoint-connectors[Select]

Marketo Connector v2.0.n

Anypoint Connector for Adobe Marketo (Marketo Connector) is a closed-source connector that provides a connection between Mule and Marketo REST APIs, implementing all the supported v1.0 Marketo API endpoints, including powerful DataSense functionality.

Release Notes: xref:release-notes::connector/marketo-connector-release-notes.adoc[Marketo Connector Release Notes]
Reference: http://mulesoft.github.io/mule-marketo-connector[Mule Marketo Connector Reference]

> Marketo Connector is a wrapper connector developed with MuleSoft's Anypoint Connector DevKit version 3.8.2.

Reviewer: Please correct the name based on this info per the Term Presentation List:

Anypoint Connector DevKit (Connector DevKit, DevKit) > Renamed Mule SDK (SDK) in Mule 4.

== Prerequisites

This document assumes that you are familiar with the Marketo API.

To use this connector you need a:

* Marketo instance with REST support.

> * Set of valid credentials, including the required Marketo endpoints, pointing to your instance. For more information, see http://developers.marketo.com/documentation/getting-started/[Marketo Developer Documentation].

Reviewer: GLOBAL FORMATTING CHANGE

```suggestion
* Set of valid credentials, including the required Marketo endpoints, pointing to your instance. 
For more information, see http://developers.marketo.com/documentation/getting-started/[Marketo Developer Documentation].
```

* MuleSoft Enterprise License.

== To Install this Connector

. In Anypoint Studio, click the Exchange icon in the Studio task bar.
. Click *Login* in Anypoint Exchange.
. Search for the connector and click *Install*.
. Follow the prompts to install the connector.

== Configure the Marketo Connector Global Element

To set up the Global Configuration:

. Go to the Global Element tab and click *Create*.

> . Inside the filter text box enter `Marketo`, and select `Marketo: Configuration`, from the *Connector Configuration* directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Inside the filter text box, enter *`Marketo`* and select `Marketo: Configuration` from the *Connector Configuration* directory.
```

> . When you select a global element, you are presented with the global element properties to enter.

Reviewer: This is not a step, and the subitems are not substeps.

.. The Client ID field refers to your LaunchPoint ID.
.. The Client Secret field should contain the corresponding secret of your LaunchPoint.
.. The Rest Endpoint URL field should contain the URL to your REST WebService.

> The following shows the Marketo configuration with Spring property placeholders (for more information see xref:configuring-properties.adoc[Configuring Properties]) for the connection field values. This is the recommended approach when you plan to deploy your app to CloudHub or to a Mule runtime server. However, you may hardcode your connection credentials into the Global Element Properties shown below if you are in the development stage and simply want to speed up the process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following image shows the Marketo configuration with Spring property placeholders (for more information see xref:configuring-properties.adoc[Configuring Properties]) for the connection field values. This is the recommended approach when you plan to deploy your app to CloudHub or to a Mule runtime server. However, you may hardcode your connection credentials into the Global Element Properties shown here if you are in the development stage and simply want to speed up the process.
```

* A transformer For example, Object to JSON.

[[config-global]]
== Use the Connector

See a full list of operations for any version of the connector https://mulesoft.github.io/mule-marketo-connector/[Marketo Technical Reference].

=== Namespace and Schema

When designing your app in Studio, dragging the connector from the Mule Palette view onto the Anypoint Studio canvas automatically populates the XML code with the connector namespace and schema location.

> If you are manually coding the Mule app in Studio's XML editor or other text editor, paste these into the header of your Configuration XML inside the tags.

Reviewer: "these" or "this"?
```suggestion
If you are manually coding the Mule app in Studio's XML editor or another text editor, paste this into the header of your configuration XML, inside the tags:
```

To invoke a simple operation (such as the Leads > Create Or Update operation), follow these steps:

. From the palette, drag and drop the Marketo connector into your flow by placing it between the Transform Message and the Object to JSON Transformer.

> . Configure the connector by selecting the connector configuration you created in the previous section and choosing the operation to invoke.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Configure the connector by selecting the connector configuration you previously created and choosing the operation to invoke.
```

== Using the Connector in a Mavenized Mule App

> If you are coding a Mavenized Mule app, include this XML snippet in your `pom.xml` file.

Reviewer: GLOBAL colon before example, table, image, list...:
```suggestion
If you are coding a Mavenized Mule app, include this XML snippet in your `pom.xml` file:
```

[source,xml,linenums]
----
<dependency>
  <groupId>org.mule.modules</groupId>
  <artifactId>mule-module-marketo</artifactId>
  <version>RELEASE</version>
</dependency>
----

Inside the `<version>` tags, put a version number, RELEASE for the latest release, or SNAPSHOT for the latest available version. See https://www.mulesoft.com/exchange/org.mule.modules/mule-module-marketo/[Anypoint Exchange] for version values.

== See Also

> * For more information on the Marketo API, see the http://developers.marketo.com/documentation/getting-started/[Marketo API documentation page].

Reviewer: information ABOUT
